[Polkadot Wiki Migration] Setup Secure WebSockets (#35)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: infrastructure/general/setup-secure-wss.md

---
title: Setup Secure WebSocket

> description: Instructions on setting up a secure socket for remote connections.

Reviewer: Desc should be between 120-160 chars

---

> <!-- TODO: link relevant guides (bootnode, rpc) -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Secure a WebSocket Port

> A non-secure websocket port can be converted to a secure WSS port by placing it behind an SSL-enabled proxy. This can be used to secure a bootnode or secure a RPC server. The SSL-enabled apache2/nginx/other proxy server redirects requests to the internal websocket and converts it to a secure (WSS) connection. For this, you will need an SSL certificate for which you can use a service like LetsEncrypt or self-signing.

Reviewer: Please add a links that reference to Let's Encrypt and self-signing

### Obtaining an SSL Certificate

One easy way to get a free SSL certificate can be achieved by following the LetsEncrypt instructions
([nginx](https://certbot.eff.org/instructions?ws=nginx&os=ubuntufocal){target=_blank}/[apache](https://certbot.eff.org/instructions?ws=apache&os=ubuntufocal){target=_blank}).
This will auto-generate an SSL certificate and include it in your configuration.

Alternatively, you can generate a self-signed certificate and rely on the raw IP address of your
node when connecting to it. This isn't preferable since you will have to whitelist the certificate
to access it from a browser.

```bash
sudo openssl req -x509 -nodes -days 365 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout /etc/ssl/private/selfsigned.key -out /etc/ssl/certs/selfsigned.crt
sudo openssl dhparam -out /etc/ssl/certs/dhparam.pem 2048

> ```

Reviewer: This command can be moved to a code snippet. Also, It might be helpful to include a brief explanation before or after the command to clarify its function.

## Installing a Proxy Server

There are a lot of different implementations of a websocket proxy, some of the more widely used are
[nginx](https://www.nginx.com/){target=_blank} and [apache2](https://httpd.apache.org/){target=_blank}, for which configuration
examples provided below.

> ### NGINX

Reviewer: Please, add a small sentence explaining briefly what it's nginx

> ```bash
> apt install nginx
> ```

Reviewer: Probably this is super nit-picking (sorry for that!), but I think it would be helpful to add a small intro like: "To install NGINX on your machine, follow these steps:" and also enumerate those steps:

```suggestion
1. Install the Nginx web server
```bash
apt install nginx
```
```

In an SSL-enabled virtual host add:

```conf
server {
  (...)
  location / {
    proxy_buffers 16 4k;
    proxy_buffer_size 2k;
    proxy_pass http://localhost:9944;
    proxy_http_version 1.1;
    proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
    proxy_set_header Connection "Upgrade";
    proxy_set_header Host $host;
   }
}

> ```

Reviewer: This should be moved to a code snippet

Optionally some form of rate limiting can be introduced:

```conf
http {
  limit_req_zone  "$http_x_forwarded_for" zone=zone:10m rate=2r/s;
  (...)
}

location / {
  limit_req zone=zone burst=5;
  (...)
}

> ```

Reviewer: This should be moved to a code snippet

### Apache2

> 

Reviewer: Please, add a small sentence explaining briefly what it's apache2

You can run it in different modes such as `prefork`, `worker`, or `event`. In this example, the
[`event`](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/mod/event.html){target=_blank} works well on higher load
environments, but other modes are also useful depending on the requirements.

```bash
apt install apache2
a2dismod mpm_prefork
a2enmod mpm_event proxy proxy_html proxy_http proxy_wstunnel rewrite ssl

> ```

Reviewer: This should be moved to a code snippet

The [`mod_proxy_wstunnel`](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/mod/mod_proxy_wstunnel.html){target=_blank} provides support for the tunneling of web socket connections to a backend websocket server. The connection is automatically upgraded to a websocket connection. In an SSL-enabled `virtualhost` add:

```apacheconf
(...)
SSLProxyEngine on
ProxyRequests off

ProxyPass / ws://localhost:9944
ProxyPassReverse / ws://localhost:9944
```

Older versions of `mod_proxy_wstunnel` don't upgrade the connection automatically and will need the
following config added:

```apacheconf
RewriteEngine on
RewriteCond %{HTTP:Upgrade} websocket [NC]
RewriteRule /(.*) ws://localhost:9944/$1 [P,L]
RewriteRule /(.*) http://localhost:9944/$1 [P,L]
```

Optionally some form of rate limiting can be introduced:

```bash
apt install libapache2-mod-qos
a2enmod qos
```

And edit `/etc/apache2/mods-available/qos.conf`

```conf
# allows max 50 connections from a single ip address:
QS_SrvMaxConnPerIP                                 50
```

## Connecting to the Node

> Open [Polkadot-JS UI](https://polkadot.js.org/apps){target=_blank} and click the logo in the top left to switch the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open [Polkadot.js Apps interfacae](https://polkadot.js.org/apps){target=_blank} and click the logo in the top left to switch the
```

node. Activate the "Development" toggle and input your node's address - either the domain or the IP
address. Remember to prefix with `wss://` and if you're using the 443 port, append `:443`, like so:
`wss://example.com:443`.

> ![A sync-in-progress chain connected to Polkadot-JS UI](/images/infrastructure/general/maintain-wss-image.webp)

Reviewer: The file name of the image differs from the actual file that was uploaded:

```suggestion
![A sync-in-progress chain connected to Polkadot-JS UI](/images/infrastructure/general/maintain-wss.webp)
```

Reviewer: We typically include a small arrow in these cases to indicate where the described action should be performed. Feel free to DM me if you need help with that :)

---
title: Setup Secure WebSocket
description: Instructions on setting up a secure socket for remote connections.
---

<!-- TODO: link relevant guides (bootnode, rpc) -->

## Secure a WS Port

> A non-secure ws port can be converted to a secure WSS port by placing it behind an SSL-enabled proxy. This can be used to secure a bootnode or secure a RPC server. The SSL-enabled apache2/nginx/other proxy server redirects requests to the internal WebSocket and converts it to a secure (WSS) connection. For this, you will need an SSL certificate for which you can use a service like LetsEncrypt or self-signing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A non-secure WS port can be converted to a secure WSS port by placing it behind an SSL-enabled proxy. This can be used to secure a bootnode or secure a RPC server. The SSL-enabled apache2/nginx/other proxy server redirects requests to the internal WebSocket and converts it to a secure (WSS) connection. For this, you will need an SSL certificate for which you can use a service like LetsEncrypt or self-signing.
```

### Obtaining an SSL Certificate

One easy way to get a free SSL certificate can be achieved by following the LetsEncrypt instructions
([nginx](https://certbot.eff.org/instructions?ws=nginx&os=ubuntufocal){target=_blank}/[apache](https://certbot.eff.org/instructions?ws=apache&os=ubuntufocal){target=_blank}).
This will auto-generate an SSL certificate and include it in your configuration.

Alternatively, you can generate a self-signed certificate and rely on the raw IP address of your

> node when connecting to it. This is not preferable since you will have to whitelist the certificate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
node when connecting to it. This isn't preferable since you will have to allowlist the certificate
```
We do prefer the use of contractions for 'not' combinations. Readers are more likely to see the 'not' indicator if it is written "don't" or "won't" rather than as two words they might miss one if skimming, etc.

to access it from a browser.

```bash
sudo openssl req -x509 -nodes -days 365 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout /etc/ssl/private/selfsigned.key -out /etc/ssl/certs/selfsigned.crt
sudo openssl dhparam -out /etc/ssl/certs/dhparam.pem 2048
```

## Installing a Proxy Server

There are a lot of different implementations of a WebSocket proxy, some of the more widely used are
[nginx](https://www.nginx.com/){target=_blank} and [apache2](https://httpd.apache.org/){target=_blank}, for which configuration
examples provided below.

> ### Nginx

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### NGINX
```
Based on what I could find online, it seems common usage is nginx or NGINX. I like using the lowercase in copy and the all caps in headings. I think it looks nicer. What do you think?

```bash
apt install nginx
```

In an SSL-enabled virtual host add:

```conf
server {
  (...)
  location / {
    proxy_buffers 16 4k;
    proxy_buffer_size 2k;
    proxy_pass http://localhost:9944;
    proxy_http_version 1.1;
    proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
    proxy_set_header Connection "Upgrade";
    proxy_set_header Host $host;
   }
}
```

Optionally some form of rate limiting can be introduced:

```conf
http {
  limit_req_zone  "$http_x_forwarded_for" zone=zone:10m rate=2r/s;
  (...)
}

location / {
  limit_req zone=zone burst=5;
  (...)
}
```

### Apache2

> You can run it in different modes such as prefork, worker, or event. In this example, we use

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can run it in different modes, such as `prefork`, `worker`, or `event`. In this example, we use
```

> You can run it in different modes such as prefork, worker, or event. In this example, we use

Reviewer 2: This one is real. Try to avoid 'we' outside of more informal tutorials. Please rewrite to not use 'we.' Thank you!

> [event](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/mod/event.html){target=_blank} which works well on higher load

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`event`](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/mod/event.html){target=_blank} which works well on higher load
```

environments but other modes are also useful given the requirements.

```bash
apt install apache2
a2dismod mpm_prefork
a2enmod mpm_event proxy proxy_html proxy_http proxy_wstunnel rewrite ssl
```

The [mod_proxy_wstunnel](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/mod/mod_proxy_wstunnel.html){target=_blank} provides

> _support for the tunneling of web socket connections to a backend websockets server. The connection

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_support for the tunneling of websocket connections to a backend websockets server. The connection
```
Having these as one word does seem to be correct so I added to the dictionary. Just need to fix the first one in the sentence so they are consistent.

> is automatically upgraded to a WebSocket connection_. In an SSL-enabled virtualhost add:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is automatically upgraded to a websocket connection_. In an SSL-enabled virtualhost add:
```
Please check the document for other instances of 'websocket' to make them consistent. It should be 'websocket' or 'websockets' unless in a heading or title, etc. Thank you!

```apacheconf
(...)
SSLProxyEngine on
ProxyRequests off

ProxyPass / ws://localhost:9944
ProxyPassReverse / ws://localhost:9944
```

> Older versions of mod_proxy_wstunnel do not upgrade the connection automatically and will need the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Older versions of mod_proxy_wstunnel don't upgrade the connection automatically and will need the
```
We prefer the use of contractions for 'not' combinations. Readers are more likely to see the 'not' indicator if it is written "don't" or "won't" rather than as two words they might miss one if skimming, etc.

---
title: Setup Secure WebSocket
description: Instructions on enabling SSL for your node and setting up a secure WebSocket proxy server using nginx for remote connections.
---

# Setup Secure WebSocket

## Introduction

Ensuring secure WebSocket communication is crucial for maintaining the integrity and security of a Polkadot or Kusama node when interacting with remote clients. This guide walks you through setting up a secure WebSocket (WSS) connection for your node by leveraging SSL encryption with popular web server proxies like nginx or Apache. By the end of this guide, you'll be able to secure your node's WebSocket port, enabling safe remote connections without exposing your node to unnecessary risks.

## Secure a WebSocket Port

> You can convert a non-secured WebSocket port to a secure WSS port by placing it behind an SSL-enabled proxy. This approach can be used to secure a bootnode or RPC server. The SSL-enabled apache2/nginx/other proxy server redirects requests to the internal WebSocket and converts it to a secure (WSS) connection. You can use a service like [LetsEncrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/){target=_blank} to obtain an SSL certificate.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can convert a non-secured WebSocket port to a secure WSS port by placing it behind an SSL-enabled proxy. This approach can be used to secure a bootnode or RPC server. The SSL-enabled apache2/nginx/other proxy server redirects requests to the internal WebSocket and converts it to a secure (WSS) connection. You can use a service like [LetsEncrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/){target=\_blank} to obtain an SSL certificate.
```

Check other `target=_blank` and add the backslash to them please

### Obtain an SSL Certificate

You can follow the LetsEncrypt instructions for your respective web server implementation to get a free SSL certificate:

-  [nginx](https://certbot.eff.org/instructions?ws=nginx&os=ubuntufocal){target=_blank}
-  [apache2](https://certbot.eff.org/instructions?ws=apache&os=ubuntufocal){target=_blank}
 
LetsEncrypt will auto-generate an SSL certificate and include it in your configuration.

You can generate a self-signed certificate and rely on your node's raw IP address when connecting. However, self-signed certificates aren't optimal because you have to whitelist the certificate to access it from a browser.

Use the following commmand to generate a self-signed certificate using OpenSSL:

--8<-- 'code/infrastructure/general/install-openssl.md'

## Install a Proxy Server

> There are a lot of different implementations of a WebSocket proxy; some of the more widely used are [nginx](https://www.nginx.com/){target=_blank} and [apache2](https://httpd.apache.org/){target=_blank}, both of which are commonly used web server implementations. See the following section for configuration examples for both implementations:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are a lot of different implementations of a WebSocket proxy; some of the more widely used are [nginx](https://www.nginx.com/){target=_blank} and [apache2](https://httpd.apache.org/){target=_blank}, both of which are commonly used web server implementations. See the following section for configuration examples for both implementations.
```

> ### Use NGINX

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Use nginx
```

1. Install the `nginx` web server: 
    ```bash
    apt install nginx
    ```

2. In an SSL-enabled virtual host add:

>     --8<-- 'code/infrastructure/general/nginx-config.md'

Reviewer 3: all of these snippets should be under `code/infrastructure/general/setup-secure-wss/*` so that way when other files in the `general` directory also use snippets, they're separated by file

Reviewer 3: Ideally, snippets use the same name convention as files, but this is a known issue that we have a ticket to circle back to later

3. Optionally, you can introduce some form of rate limiting:
    --8<-- 'code/infrastructure/general/nginx-rate-limit.md'

### Use Apache2

> Apache2 can run in various modes, including `prefork`, `worker`, and `event`. In this example, the [`event`](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/mod/event.html){target=_blank} mode is recommended for handling higher traffic loads, as it is optimized for performance in such environments. However, depending on the specific requirements of your setup, other modes like `prefork` or `worker` may also be appropriate.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Apache2 can run in various modes, including `prefork`, `worker`, and `event`. In this example, the [`event`](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/mod/event.html){target=\_blank} mode is recommended for handling higher traffic loads, as it is optimized for performance in such environments. However, depending on the specific requirements of your setup, other modes like `prefork` or `worker` may also be appropriate.
```

1. Install the `apache2` web server:
    --8<-- 'code/infrastructure/general/install-apache2.md'

2. The [`mod_proxy_wstunnel`](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/mod/mod_proxy_wstunnel.html){target=_blank} provides support for the tunneling of WebSocket connections to a backend WebSocket server. The connection is automatically upgraded to a WebSocket connection. In an SSL-enabled `virtualhost` add:
    --8<-- 'code/infrastructure/general/apache2-config.md'

>     !!!warning "Older versions of `mod_proxy_wstunnel` don't upgrade the connection automatically and will need the following config added:"
>         ```apacheconf
>         RewriteEngine on
>         RewriteCond %{HTTP:Upgrade} websocket [NC]
>         RewriteRule /(.*) ws://localhost:9944/$1 [P,L]
>         RewriteRule /(.*) http://localhost:9944/$1 [P,L]
>         ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    !!!warning
        Older versions of `mod_proxy_wstunnel` don't upgrade the connection automatically and will need the following config added:
        ```apacheconf
        RewriteEngine on
        RewriteCond %{HTTP:Upgrade} websocket [NC]
        RewriteRule /(.*) ws://localhost:9944/$1 [P,L]
        RewriteRule /(.*) http://localhost:9944/$1 [P,L]
        ```
```

🤷‍♀️

> 3. Optionally some form of rate limiting can be introduced:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Optionally, some form of rate limiting can be introduced:
```

    ```bash
    apt install libapache2-mod-qos
    a2enmod qos
    ```

>     And edit `/etc/apache2/mods-available/qos.conf`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    And edit `/etc/apache2/mods-available/qos.conf`:
```

    ```conf
    # allows max 50 connections from a single ip address:
    QS_SrvMaxConnPerIP                                 50
    ```

## Connect to the Node

> 1. Open [Polkadot.js Apps interface](https://polkadot.js.org/apps){target=_blank} and click the logo in the top left to switch the node

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Open [Polkadot.js Apps interface](https://polkadot.js.org/apps){target=\_blank} and click the logo in the top left to switch the node
```

2. Activate the **Development** toggle and input your node's address - either the domain or the IP address. Remember to prefix with `wss://` and if you're using the 443 port, append `:443` as follows:

    ```bash
    wss://example.com:443
    ```

> ![A sync-in-progress chain connected to Polkadot-JS UI](/images/infrastructure/general/maintain-wss.webp)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![A sync-in-progress chain connected to Polkadot.js UI](/images/infrastructure/general/maintain-wss.webp)
```

Reviewer 3: This image should be under `/images/infrastructure/general/setup-secure-wss/secure-wss-1.webp` and renamed to be `file-name-1.webp` - sometimes I shorten the file name if it's long
